* Kc Factor Function Database

  This project is meant to catalog some Crop Coefficient (Kc) functions for
  certain crops and other cover, used primarily for consumptive use modeling.

  The project includes a [[file:kc.ttl][definition of the terms]] used in the function definitions.

  - [[file:cups.json]] and [[file:cups_dates.json]] DWR's Consumptive Use Programs default Agricultural
    crop models, and California, default Time period dates.

** California DWR's Land and Water Use

  California's DWR, maintains a number of consumptive use models.  They have
  standardized on a number of crops for that modeling.

  The following descriptions are taken directly from DWR's [[https://water.ca.gov/Programs/Water-Use-And-Efficiency/Land-And-Water-Use/Agricultural-Water-Use-Models][Consumptive Use Program PLUS (CUP+)]]
water use model.

**** FIELD AND ROW CROP KC VALUES

#+CAPTION: Field and Row Crop Kc Function
#+NAME:   fig:field
[[./cups/field.png]]

Field and row crop Kc values are calculated using a method similar to that
described by Doorenbos and Pruitt (1977).  A generalized curve is shown in
Figure 1.  In their method, the season is separated into initial (date A-B),
rapid (date B-C), midseason (date C-D), and late season (date D-E) growth
periods.  Kc values are denoted KcA, KcB, KcC, KcD, and KcE at the ends of the
A, B, C, D, and E growth dates, respectively.  During initial growth, the Kc
values are a constant value, so KcA= KcB.  During the rapid growth period, when
the canopy increases from about 10% to 75% ground cover, the Kc value increases
linearly from KcB to KcC.  The Kc values are also at a constant value during
midseason, so KcC= KcD.  During late-season, the Kc values decrease linearly
from KcD to KcE at the end of the season.

Doorenbos and Pruitt (1977) provide estimated number of days for each of the
four growth periods to help identify the end dates of growth periods. However,
because there are climate and varietal differences and because it is difficult
for growers to know when the inflection points occur, irrigators often find this
confusing.  To simplify this problem, CUP+ uses percentages of the season from
planting to each inflection point rather than days in growth periods (see Figure
1).  Irrigation planners need only enter the planting and end dates.  The
intermediate dates are determined from the percentages, which are easily stored
in a computer program.

During initial growth of field and row crops, the default Kc value (Kc1) is used
for KcA and KcB unless it is overridden by a Kc value based on rainfall or
irrigation frequency. If a soil wetting-based Kc1 is desired, the irrigation or
rainfall frequency is entered in the “Input_Output” worksheet. Then, a graph
showing the Kc values curve corresponding to input wetting frequency versus mean
ETo rate is shown in the chart “IrrigInitGrow” or “RainInitGrow,” respectively,
for irrigation or rainfall entries.

The values for KcC= KcD depend on (1) light interception differences, (2) crop
morphology effects on turbulence, and (3) physiological differences between the
crop and reference crop.  Some field crops are harvested before senescence, and
there is no late season drop in Kc values (for example, silage corn and fresh
market tomatoes).  Relatively constant annual Kc values are possible for some
crops (for example, turfgrass and pasture) with little loss in accuracy.



**** DECIDUOUS TREE AND VINE CROP KC VALUES

#+CAPTION: Deciduous tree and vine crop Kc Function
#+NAME:   fig:field
[[./cups/tree.png]]

Deciduous tree and vine crops, without a cover crop, have Kc value curves that
are similar to those for field and row crops but without the initial growth
period (Figure 2).  Default KcB, KcC= KcD= Kc2 and KcE= Kc3 values are given in
the “Crop References” worksheet of the CUP+.  The season begins with rapid
growth at leaf out when the Kc value increases from KcB to KcC.  The midseason
period begins at approximately 70% ground cover.  Then, unless the crop is
immature, the Kc value is relatively fixed between dates C and D until the onset
of senescence.  For immature crops, canopy cover may be less than 70% during the
midseason period.  If so, the Kc value will increase from KcC up to the KcD as
the canopy cover increases.  The CUP program does account for Kc value changes
of immature tree and vine crops.  During late season, the Kc value decreases
from KcD to KcE, which occurs when the transpiration is near zero.
